TransFormed in Christ
By the Rev. Canon Michael Angelo D'Arrigo
Senior Pastor at Agape Fellowship of Greater Atlanta.
Canon to the Presiding Bishop of the Convergent Christian Communion

Of all of the things that Christians seem to agree on
one of the biggest is a notion of rebirth in Christ Jesus.

Now depending on whether one is Catholic or Protestant that
notion of rebirth may vary to some degree or another, however
it is in fact a reality of the faith for both.


Most believers use baptism as their example of the re-birthing process.

At best, the act of baptism is an outward sign of an inward reality. To
paraphrase Paul (Romans 6, etc), when we go down into the water of baptism our
old selves die, our sinful nature is washed clean, and we become heirs to the
kingdom of God. When we rise up, we are spiritually new creations. Transformed
from our old selves, to our new spiritual selves, now walking on a path to
eternal salvation.

It's important to remember that the Old Testament (Jeremiah 1:1) tells us that
God knew who we were before we were in our mother's wombs. That we have been
fearfully and wonderfully made (Psalm 139:14), and that each human creation is
made in the likeness the image of God the Creator.

According to the prophet Isaiah (Isaiah 56:4-5) Eunuchs hold a special place
within God's creation (it is immaterial that they were not allowed in the
temple, neither were woman in that time period). :

“4 For this is what the
     Lord says:
“To the eunuchs who keep my Sabbaths,
    who choose what pleases me
    and hold fast to my covenant—
5 to them I will give within my temple and its walls
    a memorial and a name
    better than sons and daughters;
I will give them an everlasting name
    that will endure forever.”
 a place set apart for holy purposes.

 Then in the New testament, Jesus himself says:

"For there are eunuchs who were born that way, and there are eunuchs who have
been made eunuchs by others--and there are those who choose to live like eunuchs
for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. The one who can accept this should accept
it.".

In the Book of Acts 8:26-40, an Ethiopian Eunuch and Treasurer to the Queen, is
baptized by Phillip, and brings the Gospel back to Ethiopia, the start of one of
the oldest Christian churches: Ethiopian Orthodox.

What if I were to say that the word in Scripture that in English we translate as
eunuch was in fact understood in the time period, as the modern English words
transgender or intersex?

Friends think about it, transgender people are literally set apart and honored
by God to serve in holy places. But if you want a more tangible way of looking
at this, one that truly exemplifies Christian faith how about this:

When one is in lockstep, in a solid relationship with Christ Jesus and the
Creator God the Father, prayerful, etc.  One comes to the conclusion that the
reason for years of misery, suicidal thoughts, self-harm, bullying, and overall
depression is because your faith community tells you that being LGBTQI+ is sinful.

When you routinely, for years ask God to cure you of your sins, to make you
whole (Sozo), and the one thing that God has not healed is your LGBTQI+, is it
perhaps because those parts are not broken and therefore do not require healing?

Let's go back to the model for rebirth.

You repent, you seek forgiveness, and then you approach the throne to walk in
 Salvation. Rebirth is necessary, a transgender person in Christ, begins
 hormonal therapy, much like a cocoon and a butterfly the TransFormation begins.
 After a passage of time (different for everyone) on HRT, a person then may
 decide to have top or bottom surgeries to remove the dysphoria that might be
 caused by body parts. All the while being in the state of prayer of repentance
 and of walking in Salvation. So over time this person has truly become a New
 Creation in Christ Jesus. The world doesn't look on them and have to make
 spiritual assumptions because they can't see the truth, the world simply need
 to see a picture from several years ago or have known this person for several
 years. What if being trans is a calling from the Creator to live out a
 spiritual and physical transformation of the body and the person that God meant
 you to be before you were in your mama's womb.

 To me, I can think of no better illustration of that total change and rebirth
 than that of a Transgender Christian. Perhaps if we all chose to see it this
 way, we could all agree that God's creation is simply more diverse then we
 thought. After all, we so commonly try and humanize God. God is bigger than
 all that, so too, obviously is Creation.

May the blessings of the Lord, be with you always. World without end...
