
Transgender and … Christian?
August 11, 2021 Dani

This morning I was watching Pastor June Joplin’s most recent YouTube update on her life and ministry and she mentioned that there are transgender people who are Christian, sometimes to the shock and dismay of others. She, as a transgender woman, is also a pastor who publicly came out in a message and in short order was fired from her church. Thankfully she found an amazing opportunity to minister again through MCC-Toronto.

Going back to that idea of being both transgender and christian. There are a lot of people, and I mean A LOT of people, who believe that ne’er the twain shall meet. In other words, you cannot be both transgender and also be a christian in their mind. These are the same people that have such a small box for their god that they have already ruled that anyone who falls into the spectrum of being LGBTQ+ is obviously “lost” and their souls are endangered.

For me, growing up with a religious background, this worried me. When I found personal faith as an 18 year old college student I hoped that faith would not only save me but also “fix” me or “heal” me of what I had assumed was a perversion or sin. Those ideas weren’t natural, they were sadly forced upon into my mind through years of evangelical preaching and teaching.

I’ll be honest, I really thought in order for me to be transgender I would have to totally kick my faith to the curb. Be it the catholic church I grew up in, or the baptist church I found myself in later in life; I didn’t see where christian faith and being transgender could ever survive. It probably didn’t help that the few times I came across someone who was transgender while growing up in the 70’s and 80’s, usually in the media, they weren’t presented in a way that proclaimed “God loves me as I am.” Honestly, it was usually because they were taught that God hates them.

When I was in seminary in the mid 90’s I was finding my way around the growing World Wide Web and as a result exploring things that I had thought and felt most of my growing years. That is also when I discovered a new to me term, it was “transgender.” That one made a lot more sense to me than the terms I heard growing up. One was “transsexual” which made me think that that who I was all about who I wanted to sleep with. The other was “transvestite” which I heard as a kid in the early and mid 1970’s and even to my unknowing ears it sounded derogatory at best.

But transgender, that made sense to me. Gender being the societal norms of male and female that we were taught and ingrained in us. In elementary school the boys played here and the girls played there. In middle school the boys played football and the girls did cheer or dance, maybe volleyball. In high school the boys had their locker room and the girls had theirs. And of course there was always those dress codes which seemed to favor keeping the boys and their raging hormones under control at the expense of the comfort of the girls.

I didn’t have to do much research back then to realize that transgender is what I was, it is who I am. When I did my first round of gender therapy online in 2019 it was only confirmed, along with gender dysphoria. I wish I could say I accepted myself at that time, but it was still a work in progress that I’m still working on.

Around the same time, in the mid 90’s, when I discovered what being transgender meant I began to explore the idea of being trans and also being a christian. Could I really follow the Jesus who I trusted when I was 18 and still be transgender? Could God love me if I would eventually pursue transition or would I have to keep that side of me stuffed in a closet and pray that it never comes out? Thankfully I found my answer through Yahoo Groups.

Oh, I’m so dating myself here, aren’t I? Some of us remember the Yahoo Groups, set up similar to groups you find on Facebook now, except it was through the Yahoo web service. It was in Yahoo Groups I found a group called “Transgender Christians”, organized by a woman who is trans herself, but also actively involved in her local church…an evangelical church if I recall correctly of all places! I recently messaged her to thank her for that early work she did because it might have helped save my life more than once.

Over the next 15-20 years I would find myself entering and exiting that group as I tried to accept myself as transgender and then allow guilt and shame to lead me to a purge of those things that helped me find wholeness. And every time I went back in, there was a sense of acceptance by those who like me struggled to reconcile to the two, but hung on to faith none the less. Isn’t that what a church should be like any way? We come together, unite with our struggles and find someone in common that builds our faith.

I’ll be honest, if it weren’t for the deconstruction of my strong evangelical, borderline calvinist views of faith, I might not be where I am today in terms of self acceptance. I hated myself for being transgender and didn’t see how I can truly call myself a “christian” by letting that “sin of being transgender” define me. But once those theological blinders came off and grace became more of a reality to me, I rediscovered a faith that is stronger today than ever.

I am Danielle Grace, and I am a transgender woman and I am a follower of Jesus. Accepting myself as the previous has grown me in the latter. And while others might doubt my salvation and condemn me to the “hell” they have created in their minds, I know who I am. And it is in that faith I believe the words I read in Romans 8:37-39 to be true:

“No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. 38 For I am convinced that neither death nor life, neither angels nor demons, neither the present nor the future, nor any powers, 39 neither height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord.” (NIV)

My hope and my faith is built on that love that says God loves me so much that They were willing to wrap Themselves in flesh and die for me!

Can you be transgender and be a christian? Absolutely!
