When I “walked the aisle” in a Southern Baptist Church, way back in 1989, I do believe I had a sincere moment of faith.  Honestly, I needed it.  Something did happen in my heart and life and I do believe it changed me for the better.

But when I walked out of that church that evening I still had the same gnawing in my soul; my mind and my body were not in sync.  On the outside I looked every bit a boy, although my then stylish mullet kept some guessing from behind, at least, inside I knew better.  It might have been another 15 or so years until I learned the word for my truth, but I knew when I was 18 years old I was transgender.

I threw myself into service in my local church as well as the Baptist Student Union on my college campus, I think I tried to do that to fight off the “demons” that I had yet to have a name for.  I did mission trips, I served on camp staffs, I even began preaching more and more in churches.  None of it was enough to make me feel like I was complete.  I still felt broken, I knew I wasn’t whole.  I just wanted to be accepted, and maybe more so accept myself.

Seminary followed, earning a Master’s Degree in one of the most conservative of Baptist seminaries, and then going into the role of Pastor.  All the while the struggle was still real.  All the while I was praying to be “fixed” and hoping to one day either wake up as the girl I believed I was, or for that desire to go away.  No matter what I tried, I always felt like I was on the outside looking in.

A little over 2 years ago I activated an old Facebook account that I used to explore my sexuality and started to learn that there was an active faith community that was also transgender.  I was blown freaking away!  Seriously?  I could still be a person of faith, even a woman of faith, and transgender at the same time?

But I still knew I was alone in the fact that I was serving as a local church pastor and struggling with my gender identity.  Being a church member and trans is one thing, but there is no way God would “call” someone to be a pastor who is transgender?  Either I was wrong or I was totally alone.

And for a long time I stayed in my loneliness, believing that I was some sort of freak of nature.  But then I had someone reach out to me in a transgender faith group, she had been in seminary with plans of going into the pastorate.  And then I discovered another lady whose background was so similar to mine that it was scary, and she was living her truth after serving as a pastor for many years.

And it just kept happening.  This person and that person, some who were still active in the faith community, some who were either out of it or moving out of it, yet still similar enough to let me know I wasn’t alone.

I believe that is when I really began the journey to self acceptance.  When you come to a point in your life when you realize you aren’t truly alone and you can have others who “get” you, it can be life changing.  It was for me.

If hearing part of my story tells you one thing, I hope it is this: You are not alone in this world and you are loved!  If no other human being tells you this, know that I love you for who you are, regardless what mask you have had to wear in your life.

And God loves you, regardless of what religion and churchianity has taught you…you are loved.  You are beloved!

In Jeremiah 31:3 God proclaims “I have loved you with an everlasting love; I have drawn you with unfailing kindness.”  Hang on to that truth beloved, know that you are loved and you are accepted!
