Pray Away The Shame! My Thoughts on the Pray Away Documentary.
August 11, 2021

Last night I watched "Pray Away", a documentary which thouroughly examined the history of a popular conversion therapy ministry. The film follows several figures and their lives/involvement with the ministry and others like it. This isn't a film review or analysis, and will contain no spoilers and little direct reference. I can't begin to describe how closely I related to almost every person involved, including the hurt and humiliation associated with such toxic so called theology that does untold harm regardless of misguided intentions. I believed for many years that I was under what I perceived as being God's righteous judgement as due punishment for dabbling in my true authentic self. I truly thought that my divorce, depression, and other various struggles in life were a direct result of both exploring my gender identity and openly affirming lgbtq people. I was convinced that the only remedy was to run in the opposite direction, and embrace the image of masculinity I had been told would save me. It's a good thing I never got involved in a group like Exodus, as I can only imagine the self hate and damage I would have continued to wreak upon myself bit possibly others.

Instead I retreated into an internal crusade of self hate mostly from a distance. I would listen to transphobic, anti gay sermons and truly believed it made me more holy. As someone who began their faith journey as a liberal sixteen year old, I slowly descended into a more fundamentalist, less inclusive mindset which I perceived as truth. Anyone who disagreed was heretical and enslaved to the world.

I say with deep shame and a sincere universal policy that I found myself becoming angry when I saw gay couples or anyone displaying even the slightest hint of gender non-conformity. If a queer perspn was featured on a tv show, I would storm out of the room.

Thankfully my former church never organized any kind of conversion therapy groups that I know of. Still, you heard the same ideas and hurtful comments thrown around occasionally in studies and sermons. There was this sense of urgency to protect what they saw as traditional biblical families. I myself was convinced that if I was able to start a new family, allbeit blended, that all of these things I think I needed and wanted would fall into place. I nearly made that mistake, having an engagement fall to pieces shortly before I came to peace with the truth that my God given identity were a gift to be embraced. Until then, I was convinced that being trans and queer was a sinful side of me that needed to be repressed and avoided just as much as my drinking. However, unlike my alcoholism, being LGBTQ wasn't sinful or self destructive. Instead, denying that truth did untold harm to my mental health and capacity to love and care for others.

In early 2020 I stopped believing I was inherently wicked and as a result of this toxic theology assumed my faith was just as dead as my birth name. I was astonished at how wrong I was. Queer people of faith came out of the woodwork to support me. I met so many believing trans people through a church fb group, many of which came from a similar spiritual background. I had no idea how many queer people identified as Christians, nor how many straight, cis believers were out there enthusiastically offering their kindness and affirmations. I learned about how certain scriptures have been mistranslated, misinterpreted, and misused throughout the years, and the new wave of inclusion sweeping churches of various denominations. My faith, far from dead, is being renewed daily by a loving God who has purpose for my life in the authentic way it was meant to be lived.

I've had the opportunity to help out with worship music and have been interviewed by churches working towards inclusion. Beyond ministry opportunities I've been blessed with rich, meaningful fellowship with others on a similar path.

I really don't know what more I could say about this film, other than it was incredibly powerful and at times hard to watch. I believe everyone should see it, whether they identify as LGBTQ, Christian, both, or anywhere in between. It's important to understand how harmful and in some instances even deadly this type of practice is, no matter how loving and kindhearted it's portrayed to be. It would be incredibly difficult for anyone to remain skeptical about the damage done by these kinds of programs after watching this film. Conversion therapy is a lie from the pit of hell, one which continues to manifest itself across churches and individuals without regard for the needless suffering it produces.

National Suicide Prevention Lifeline

https://suicidepreventionlifeline.org/

800-273-8255

Thetrevorproject.org

Freedhearts.org
